>> Speaker 1: Look what happens
when I start mutating this.
>> Speaker 1: Everywhere.
>> Speaker 1: And so
I'll go ahead and save this.
Notice here, good.
But it was that leaky mutation
that sets the stage for
component of an architecture, and how you
kind of deal with that particular issue?
But then how you start to structure
your applications at scale.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Sorry,
I just did not see that.
What mutation were we observing on there?
>> Speaker 1: All right, so don't blink.
>> Speaker 2: Again,
I'm not sure where to be looking.
>> Speaker 1: On the left.
>> Speaker 2: They all say-
>> Speaker 1: So I'm mutating the form, so
I'm changing the data structure.
>> Speaker 2: You just don't want that
to be represented in the final saved.
>> Speaker 1: Well, so if I change
it here, not only do I not want it,
you may not realize it but
you definitely don't want it.
You don't want to change
something in one place and
have it change in the title And
down here in the projects list.
And so this is a very obvious example, but
this happens all the time in
applications where you have shared,
mutable state, where you have, for
instance, an object in a service.
You're passing by reference
across two components and
one component is like,
this can never go up to past ten.
And the other component's like, I'm
a rock star, I'm gonna turn this to 11.
And all of a sudden, boom,
you've got a problem.
Or you're expecting something to be in
a certain state, but something over here,
because the right hand doesn't
know what the left hand is doing,
then you get into an unpredictable state.
Because somewhere somebody else has done
something that you weren't aware of.
And so this is, I think, a very,
okay, to my seven-year-old son, Dad,
what's state mutation or
shared mutable state?
I'm like, well, let me show you.
We come here and I'll be like, see,
>> Speaker 1: And
I type it here,
you see how it's here and here.
So very simple, but don't be like,
it's kind of a simple example,
but it's indicative of something.
It appears benign but it's not at all.
It's very,
very dangerous in your application
when you have state that can be
mutated in more than one place.